--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TRACE 3
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PROBLEM: The twelve letters $A$,$B$,$C$,$D$,$E$,$F$,$G$,$H$,$I$,$J$,$K$, and $L$ are randomly grouped into six pairs of letters. The two letters in each pair are placed next to each other in alphabetical order to form six two-letter words, and then those six words are listed alphabetically. For example, a possible result is $AB$, $CJ$, $DG$, $EK$, $FL$, $HI$. The probability that the last word listed contains $G$ is $\frac mn$, where $m$ and $n$ are relatively prime positive integers. Find $m+n$.

REASONING TRACE:

Okay, so I need to find the probability that the last word listed contains the letter G. Let me try to understand the problem step by step. First, there are twelve letters: A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L. They are randomly grouped into six pairs. Then, each pair is placed next to each other in alphabetical order to form six two-letter words. Then, these six words are listed alphabetically. The question is asking for the probability that the last word in this alphabetical list contains the letter G. The answer should be in the form of a reduced fraction m/n, and then find m + n. Alright, so first, let me think about how the pairing and ordering works. When they say the two letters in each pair are placed next to each other in alphabetical order, that means that for each pair, the letters are ordered so that the smaller one comes first. For example, if a pair is C and J, then the word is CJ. Similarly, if a pair is J and C, it would still be CJ. So the pairing process is essentially grouping the letters into pairs, and then each pair is ordered alphabetically. Then, after forming these six two-letter words, they are listed alphabetically. The last word in this list is the one that comes last alphabetically. The question is asking for the probability that this last word contains G. So, to approach this, I need to figure out all possible ways to pair the letters, then determine for each pairing, what the last word is, and then see in how many of those cases the last word contains G. Then divide that by the total number of possible pairings to get the probability. But since the number of pairings is huge, I need to find a smarter way than enumerating all possibilities. First, let me recall that the number of ways to partition 12 letters into 6 pairs is 11!! = 11 × 9 × 7 × 5 × 3 × 1 = 10395. Wait, is that right? Let me check. The formula for the number of ways to partition 2n elements into n pairs is (2n - 1)!!, which for n=6 is 11!! = 10395. Yes, that's correct. So total number of pairings is 10395. But maybe I don't need to compute the exact number, but rather think about probabilities. Alternatively, maybe I can think about the position of G in the final alphabetical list of words. Since the words are ordered alphabetically, the last word is the one that is the largest in alphabetical order. So, the problem reduces to: what is the probability that the largest two-letter word (in alphabetical order) contains G? But wait, the largest two-letter word would be the one that is the last when all words are sorted. So, the question is equivalent to: what is the probability that the maximum two-letter word (in alphabetical order) contains G? But how does the pairing affect this? Let me think. First, note that each two-letter word is formed by two letters, ordered alphabetically. So, for example, the word "AB" is the first possible word, and "LJ" would be a word if J and L are paired, but actually, since they are ordered, it would be JL. Wait, no. Wait, the letters are placed next to each other in alphabetical order. So if you have two letters, say, J and L, then they are ordered as JL. Similarly, if you have letters L and J, they are still ordered as JL. So each pair is ordered as the smaller letter first, then the larger. Therefore, each two-letter word is determined by a pair of letters, with the smaller one first. So, the entire set of words is just the set of all pairs, each ordered alphabetically. Then, when you list them alphabetically, you are sorting these six two-letter words. So, for example, if the pairs are AB, CD, EF, GH, IJ, KL, then the words are AB, CD, EF, GH, IJ, KL, which are already in order. But if the pairs are AB, CJ, DG, EK, FL, HI, then the words are AB, CJ, DG, EK, FL, HI, which are already in order. Wait, but in the example given in the problem statement, they list the words as AB, CJ, DG, EK, FL, HI. So, the words are ordered alphabetically. Therefore, the last word is the one that is the largest in alphabetical order. So, the problem is equivalent to: given a random pairing of the 12 letters into pairs, each pair forming a two-letter word in alphabetical order, what is the probability that the largest such word (i.e., the last one when all words are sorted alphabetically) contains the letter G? So, to find this probability, maybe I can think about what determines the largest word. The largest two-letter word would be the one with the highest possible first letter, and if there are multiple words with the same first letter, then the one with the highest second letter. Therefore, the largest word is determined by the pair that has the highest first letter, and among those, the highest second letter. Alternatively, since all words are two-letter words, the alphabetical order is determined first by the first letter, then by the second letter. So, for example, "AB" comes before "AC", which comes before "AD", etc., and "AB" comes before "BA" because "AB" starts with A and "BA" starts with B. Wait, but in our case, all words are ordered with the smaller letter first. Therefore, all words start with the smaller letter. Therefore, the first letters of the words are all the smaller letters of the pairs. Therefore, the first letters of the words are all the smaller letters in each pair. Therefore, the largest word will be the one with the largest first letter, and if there are multiple words with the same first letter, then the one with the largest second letter. Therefore, the last word is determined by the pair that has the largest possible first letter, and if there are multiple pairs with that first letter, then the one with the largest second letter. Therefore, to find the probability that the last word contains G, we need to find the probability that the pair which is the largest in the alphabetical order of the words contains G. So, let me think about what pairs can be the largest word. First, the largest possible first letter in any word is L, since the letters go up to L. However, if there is a pair that starts with L, then that word would be the last one, unless there is a pair that starts with L and has a higher second letter. But since L is the highest letter, any pair that starts with L would have the second letter being a letter after L, but since L is the highest, there are no letters after L. Therefore, the pair that starts with L would be "L" paired with some other letter, say, X, which would be ordered as XL. Wait, no. Wait, the pair is formed by two letters, and they are ordered alphabetically. So, if L is paired with, say, K, then the word is KL. If L is paired with J, it's JL. But if L is paired with any letter, the word will start with the smaller letter. Therefore, if L is paired with any other letter, the word will start with that letter. Therefore, the only way for a word to start with L is if L is paired with a letter that is smaller than L, which is possible. However, since L is the largest letter, the only way for a word to start with L is if L is paired with a letter smaller than L, which would make the word start with that smaller letter. Therefore, actually, there is no word that starts with L. Wait, that seems contradictory. Wait, hold on. Let me think again. Suppose we have two letters, say, L and M. Wait, but in our case, the letters are only up to L. So the letters are A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L. So L is the last letter. Therefore, if L is paired with any other letter, say, K, then the pair is ordered as K and L, so the word is KL. Therefore, the first letter of the word is K, not L. Therefore, there is no word that starts with L. Therefore, the maximum first letter of any word is J? Wait, no. Let me check. Wait, if we have a pair that includes J and K, then the word is JK. If we have a pair that includes J and L, the word is JL. If we have a pair that includes I and L, the word is IL. So, the first letters of the words can be any letter except L, because L can only be the second letter in a pair. Therefore, the first letters of the words are all letters from A up to J, since J is the highest letter that can be paired with a higher letter (K or L). Wait, but J can be paired with K or L, so the word would be JK or JL. So, the first letter is J. Similarly, if you pair K with L, the word is KL. So, the first letter is K. Wait, so if K is paired with L, then the word is KL, which starts with K. Therefore, the first letters of the words can be up to K. Wait, but K is paired with L, so the first letter is K. Similarly, if K is paired with J, then the word is JK. So, the first letter is J. Therefore, the first letters of the words can be up to K. Similarly, if you pair L with someone else, the first letter is that someone else. Therefore, the maximum first letter of any word is K, if K is paired with L. Therefore, the last word would be KL, which is the largest word. Wait, but if there is a pair that starts with K, then that would be the largest first letter. If there are multiple pairs starting with K, then the one with the largest second letter would be the last word. However, since K can only be paired with one other letter, there can be only one pair starting with K. Therefore, if K is paired with L, then the word is KL, which is the largest possible word. If K is not paired with L, then K is paired with someone else, say, J, making the word JK, and then the largest word would be something else. Wait, but if K is paired with someone else, say, J, then the word is JK. Then, the next largest first letter would be J. But if there is another pair starting with J, then the largest word would be the one with the highest second letter. However, since each letter is only in one pair, if K is paired with J, then J is already used, so there can't be another pair starting with J. Therefore, if K is paired with someone else, then the largest first letter is K (if paired with L), or if not, then the next is J, but only if J is paired with someone else. Wait, this seems complicated. Alternatively, maybe the last word is determined by the pair that has the highest possible first letter, and if there are multiple pairs with the same first letter, then the one with the highest second letter. Therefore, the last word is the pair with the highest possible first letter, and among those, the highest second letter. Therefore, the problem reduces to: what is the probability that the pair which is the maximum in the alphabetical order of the words contains G. So, to find this probability, perhaps I can think about the possible candidates for the maximum word. First, the maximum word could be KL (if K and L are paired), or it could be JL (if J and L are paired), or JI (if J and I are paired), etc. But actually, the maximum word would be the one with the highest first letter, and if there are multiple, the highest second letter. Therefore, the maximum word is determined by the pair that has the highest possible first letter, and if there are multiple such pairs, the one with the highest second letter. Therefore, the maximum word is the pair that is the "maximum" in the set of all pairs, where the comparison is done first by the first letter, then by the second letter. Therefore, the question is: what is the probability that the maximum pair (in this ordering) contains G? So, to compute this, maybe I can think about the possible maximum pairs and compute the probability that G is in that pair. Alternatively, perhaps we can think about the position of G in the pairing. Since the maximum pair is determined by the pair with the highest first letter, and if there are multiple, the highest second letter. Therefore, the maximum pair is the pair that is the "largest" in the sense of the pair's alphabetical order. Therefore, the maximum pair is the pair that is the last when all pairs are sorted alphabetically. Therefore, the problem is equivalent to: what is the probability that the pair which is the last in the alphabetical list of pairs contains G. So, how can we compute this probability? Alternatively, maybe we can think about the probability that G is in the maximum pair. To compute this, perhaps we can consider all possible maximum pairs and compute the probability that G is in one of them. But how do we find the probability that the maximum pair contains G? Alternatively, perhaps we can think about the possible candidates for the maximum pair. The maximum pair is the one that is the largest in the set of all pairs. Let me think about what pairs can be the maximum. The maximum pair is the one that is the largest in the entire set of pairs. So, for example, if K and L are paired, then the pair is KL, which is the largest possible pair. If K is not paired with L, then the maximum pair would be JL (if J is paired with L), or maybe something else. Wait, but if K is paired with someone else, say, J, then the pair is JK. Then, the next possible maximum pair would be JL if J is paired with L, but if J is already paired with K, then the next maximum pair would be something else. This seems complicated. Maybe there's a better way. Alternatively, perhaps we can think about the probability that G is in the maximum pair. Let me think about the position of G in the entire set of letters. Since the maximum pair is determined by the pair with the highest first letter, and then the highest second letter. So, the maximum pair is determined by the pair that has the highest possible first letter. If there is a pair with first letter K, then that is the maximum pair. If not, then the pair with first letter J, etc. Therefore, the maximum pair is determined by the highest first letter in the pairs. Let me think about the letters from A to L. The letters are A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L. Let me think about the possible first letters of the maximum pair. The maximum first letter can be K, J, I, etc., depending on how the letters are paired. But to have a pair with first letter K, K must be paired with a letter higher than K, which is only L. Therefore, the only way to have a pair with first letter K is to pair K with L. Similarly, the pair with first letter J can be formed by pairing J with any letter higher than J, which are K or L. Similarly, the pair with first letter I can be formed by pairing I with J, K, or L, etc. Therefore, the maximum pair is KL if K and L are paired. If not, then the maximum pair is JL if J is paired with L. If not, then the maximum pair is JK if J is paired with K. If not, then the maximum pair is something else. Therefore, the maximum pair is determined by the highest possible first letter, and if there are multiple pairs with the same first letter, the one with the highest second letter. Therefore, the probability that the maximum pair contains G depends on whether G is in the maximum pair. So, perhaps we can think about the different cases where the maximum pair is KL, JL, JK, etc., and compute the probability that G is in the maximum pair in each case. Alternatively, maybe we can think of the maximum pair as being the pair that is the "last" when all pairs are sorted. Therefore, the maximum pair is the pair that is the "largest" in the entire set. Therefore, the problem is similar to: what is the probability that the pair containing G is the largest pair? But how can we compute that? Alternatively, maybe we can think about the probability that G is in the maximum pair. Let me think about the possible positions of G. First, note that the maximum pair is determined by the pair with the highest first letter. Let me think about the letters that can be the first letter of the maximum pair. The highest possible first letter is K (if K is paired with L). If K is not paired with L,

[... TRUNCATED ...]
